>> Will Sentance: So we are now going to
move onto what changed in the ES2015 and
on world.
The ES6 world.
So until then, what we saw here before.
This model,
remember that beautiful model here we had?
That was pretty much it.
And then along came promises, and
everything got a little bit different.
The premise for it is this.
If I were to try and sum it up,
the premise would be this.
When I had this model here,
when I used setTimeout.
Did setTimeout do anything in JavaScript?
No, where was its consequence, Kayla?
>> Kayla: In the web browser.
>> Will Sentance: In the web browser,
spot-on.
But once I've set up
the timer in the web browser,
keeping track of the fact that I've
started it, or other background features?
I didn't really get any way of tracking
that back in JavaScript, right?
In JavaScript,
I kinda just threw them out.
Now, I can console.log state In JavaScript
data and JavaScript using my console.
But I can't go and visualize all
the stuff that was down here.
There's no like console visualize it for
the web browser,
which is that is a little bit old, right?
That half of what you're doing obviously
more than half what you do in JavaScript
is happening down here.
And I'm getting kind of no tracking of
it can no maintaining of consistency
between the state,
the data I see up here in my memory and
the stuff that's happening down here.
There's no kind of way of mapping
what I'm doing down here in
the web browser with what's
going on up here in JavaScript.
That's in terms of developer reasoning and
thinking about what we're doing as we
go and sort of maintaining the application
scale that isn't that ideal I would say.
And I would put promises as
the absolute one of the most valuable
pieces they offer, they have all
the benefits as well, is a desire to say,
when you trigger something in the
background, don't just throw it out there.
But have it have some sort of consequence
in JavaScript memory as well.
So, that I have a consistency between
things going on in background is gonna
have some consequence back
in Java at some point.
And I'm somehow keeping track of that
within JavaScript memory as well.
So with ES6, we introduced what I'm
gonna call two-pronged facade functions.
They did not just, let's remember
our web browser, what's in it.
We had our JavaScript engine,
we had our JS, our JavaScript engine,
and then we also had a ton
of browser features,
one of which was speaking to
the Internet the network request.
And that its label.
We have an old school label, that by the
way worked in the same way as set timeout.
Took a function,
threw it down into the web browser,
set up a timer with the old school style.
We have a new school style of setting up
the browser feature speak to the Internet,
speak to Twitter, whatever it might be.
Send a request for
more data over the Internet.
And the label for
it in JavaScript is fetch.
But there's a new star way of doing it.
It's one I'm gonna call it
two-pronged facade function.
It does set up a network
request in the web
browser features, I keep doing that.
In the web browser features, it does
set up a network request down here.
But rather than just doing that and
then nothing,
no way of knowing this being
done in JavaScript from then on,
it's gonna have a consequence
immediately in JavaScript as well.
This fetch label is gonna trigger
speaking to the Internet down here.
Sending a network request,
speaking to the internet, asking for
data from Twitter down here.
And simultaneously it's
going to also in JavaScript,
in the JavaScript land return out
a special kind of object
called a promise object.
That's going to sit in memory.
And when the background work is done here,
that's going to fill in and
update that object's data with
the data from the background.
And now when we finish
our background work,
we are not surprised that something's
gonna have a result back in
JavaScript because we had
a two pronged facade function.
It had consequences out here, one prong.
But it had another consequence
immediately in JavaScript.
A little sort of placeholder object
that's gonna allow us to keep
track in JavaScript in our local memory or
in our global
memory there of the stuff we triggered
off down here in the web browser.
So now we kinda have these two mapped
together and they're intimately linked.
The background feature when it completes
is going to have consequences for
that immediately returned
down JavaScript object.
We're gonna see it play through here,
but take a look at it,
two pronged facade functions that both
initiate background web browser works
being the Internet and
return a place holder object.
It's just a charge of object but
a special type of one with a promise
immediately in JavaScript land.
So that we have a way of making sure we
know what's going on down here because
we've kept it up to date up here.
Really interesting,
is very interesting concept.
So here we go.
We're gonna see it play out here.
Save a function display, which hopefully
is gonna be run with the data that
comes back from Twitter as input, then
we're going to have his label future data.
And then on the right hand side there,
the five letter word that is
the most powerful in JavaScript.
It is profoundly complex
what those five letters do.
They are going to set out
speaking to the Internet.
That five letter word literally
speaks to the Internet down here from
the web browser.
Not in JavaScript, JavaScript can't do it,
but the web browser can.
That is how powerful
that five letter word is.
It's using a myriad of
technologies to go and
get data from the other side of
the world Adrian, JavaScript.
JavaScript does not have that feature,
believe me.
But the web browser has
a whole myriad of remarkable
technologies that get
all that work started.
But it also simultaneously in
JavaScript returns out a little object,
that's gonna be called a promise object,
that is just a regular JavaScript object.
But has some little bonus features on it
a little bonus properties two we're gonna
see them and
how they play out in a moment.